.. generated-by: Codex content pass (2025-10-10)

.. _error-e2066:

E/2066 - Module missing or not available
========================================

:Category: Startup / module loading
:Primary impact: Action/config not loaded; feature unavailable
:Typical environments: Distro split packages; custom builds; optional modules
:Introduced: by 8.0 (present in all 8.x+)
:Related: :ref:`error-e2124`

**Quick triage**

1) Identify which module is referenced by the config (page/module name).  
2) Check installed packages and module directory:
   ::

      rsyslogd -v | grep -i modules || true
      find /usr/lib*/rsyslog -maxdepth 1 -type f -name "*.so" 2>/dev/null
3) If using a distro package, verify the matching subpackage is installed.

**Most common root causes**

- Module not built or not installed (e.g., TLS, database, special outputs).  
- Distro split packages (e.g., `rsyslog-gnutls`, database drivers) not present.  
- Legacy directive refers to functionality that now requires a module.

**Fixes**

- Install the appropriate package or rebuild with the module enabled.  
- Load the module explicitly if required:
  ::

    module(load="omfwd")
- Replace legacy directives with modern action syntax if applicable.

**Why it happens**

The configuration references a capability provided by a loadable module, but the
module is not available in the runtime. Install or enable it, then re-run
``rsyslogd -N1`` to validate.

**See also**

- :ref:`error-e2124` - Configuration parse problem
