.. generated-by: Codex content pass (2025-10-10)

.. _error-e2124:

E/2124 - Configuration parse problem
====================================

:Category: Startup / parsing
:Primary impact: rsyslogd fails to start or reload
:Typical environments: Mixed legacy config; missing templates; typos
:Introduced: by 8.0 (present in all 8.x+)
:Related: :ref:`error-e2066`

.. note::

   **Validate configuration first with ``rsyslog -N1``.**
   This command performs a syntax and consistency check using the exact
   binary that runs in production. Fix all reported issues before starting.

   For explanations and suggested fixes for common errors, you can also
   consult the **rsyslog Assistant** at https://www.rsyslog.ai – an AI-based
   helper that understands rsyslog configuration syntax and module options.
   It complements but does not replace ``rsyslog -N1``.

**Quick triage**

1) Run a syntax check and note the **file:line**:
   ::

      rsyslogd -N1
2) Inspect that line and a few lines above for quoting, braces, and parameter names.  
3) Verify referenced templates/actions/modules actually exist.

**Most common root causes**

- Mixing legacy config lines with RainerScript without correct syntax.  
- Missing template/action definitions before use.  
- Typos in parameter names or wrong case.  
- Bad JSON or unbalanced braces in complex actions.

**Fixes**

- Convert legacy lines to modern RainerScript equivalents.  
- Define templates before they are used; keep includes ordered.  
- Correct parameter names/case; validate JSON.  
- Re-run ``rsyslogd -N1`` until clean.

**Why it happens**

The parser rejects invalid or inconsistent configuration constructs. Fix the exact
location and re-validate before starting the daemon.

**See also**

- :ref:`error-e2066` - Module missing or not available
